---
title: Sensei Philip Jauch
job_title: Owner / Senior Instructor
image_path: /assets/img/staff/Phil-Jauch.jpg
order: 1
---


Sensei Philip and Shelly Jauch have been married for 25 years and have four children. Their karate journey began when their second son turned 10 and they wanted to find something to help build his confidence and self-discipline and something Philip could do for exercise. A friend recommended karate as something they could do together and IBBA as a great place with friendly staff and focus on character education. Shelly says, “After doing our research, we decided IBBA would be a great fit. We loved the fact that the curriculum was not about fighting, but about doing your best to stop a fight and focusing on your character to always choose ‘right over might’”. Philip made great friendships and found a passion for martial arts while finding a healthy physical program, their son made connections with others and worked hard to earn his Jr. Black Belt, and eventually their daughter and 3rd son joined as well! Shelly says, “My favorite moment as a karate mom was cheering on my daughter and Philip working to earn their Jr. Black Belt and 2nd Degree Black Belt together.” While their children have chosen to pursue other activities, the lessons they learned from karate still benefit them in many areas of their life. Philip’s passion and commitment have led him to become a school owner and hold multiple Black Belts through studies of many other forms of martial arts as he continues his journey as a student. Shelly has partnered with Philip as school owner and desires to see the school continue to provide quality martial arts and character education to students of all ages. If you’re wondering about the fourth child, their oldest son finally joined the IBBA team as well – he designed the website you’re reading!